# Command Line Tools
The command line tools include an `assembler` executable, a `simulator`
executable, and a static library that is used by both tools as well as the GUI
and testing framework. The testing framework is also invoked through the
command line, and more information about them can be found in the [testing
framework document](TEST.md).

Assuming you have followed the [build
document](BUILD.md#command-line-tools-and-unit-tests), the `assembler` and
`simulator` executables will be under `build/bin/` on \*NIX systems and
`build/bin/Release/`on Windows systems. The static library will be under
`build/lib/` on \*NIX systems and `build/lib/Release/` on Windows systems.

## Assembler
The `assembler` executable accepts one or more assembly or binary files as
arguments and generates machine code files that the `simulator` executable can
use. If the filename has a `.asm` extension, the assembler will treat the input
file as an assembly program. If the filename has a `.bin` extension, the
"assembler" will treat the input file as a binary program (technically this is
just a conversion and not actually an assembly). Regardless of the input file
format, the `assembler` executable will produce an object file (extension
`.obj`) with the same name and in the same directory as the input file.

Full operation of the `assembler` executable is as follows:

```
usage: bin/assembler [OPTIONS] FILE [FILE...]

  -h,--help              Print this message
  --print-level=N        Output verbosity [0-9]
  --enable-liberal-asm   Enable liberal assembly mode
```

### Print Levels
The following is a description of the type of output each print level enables
for the assembler.  Levels are cumulative, so, for example, setting print level
to 8 will print messages from all preceding levels (i.e. 0-8).

* None (0): Do not print any output
* Fatal Error (2): Print fatal errors
* Error (3): Print assembly errors
* Warning (4): Print assembly warnings
* Note (5): Print helpful notes to correct errors and warnings
* Info (6): Print light information about the assembly process
* Extra (8): Print detailed information about the assembly process

### Liberal Assembly Mode
Previous versions of LC-3 assemblers are sometimes more loose with the ISA's
rules than this assembler. Liberal assembly mode is a compatibility mode that
should support all old assembly code.

## Simulator
The `simulator` executable accepts one or more object files (extension `.obj`)
and loads them into an emulated LC-3 system. The first object file in the
argument list will determine the initial PC, although it is trivial to change
the PC within the simulator itself.

Once the object files are loaded, the simulator is controlled with an
interactive shell-like interface. Details on the interface can be found by
typing in `help` at the simulator prompt. Full operation of the `simulator`
executable is as follows:

```
usage: bin/simulator [OPTIONS] FILE [FILE...]

  -h,--help              Print this message
  --print-level=N        Output verbosity [0-9]
  --ignore-privilege     Ignore access violations
  --log=file             Output to log file
```

### Print Levels
The following is a description of the type of output each print level enables
for the simulator.  Levels are cumulative, so, for example, setting print level
to 8 will print messages from all preceding levels (i.e. 0-8).

* None (0): Do not print any output
* Simulated Output (1): Print output generated by the simulated program
* Fatal Error (2): Print fatal errors
* Error (3): Print errors
* Warning (4): Print simulator warnings
* Debug (7): Print debugging information about the simulator, including a stack
  trace when entering subroutines, exception handlers, etc.
* Extra (8): Print detailed information about the simulation, including
  every event that the simulation executes and a breakdown of micro-ops for each
  instruction.

### Ignore Privilege
LC-3 privilege modes may be an advanced topic that is not covered in class.
Enabling this mode makes the simulation ignore access violation exceptions, so
students and instructors can ignore them.

### Log File
Providing a log file will redirect output from the simulation to a file while
still enabling interaction with the simulator shell. Useful when the print level
is set to 9.

## Unit Tests
Unit test executables accept one or more assembly (`*.asm`) or binary (`*.bin`)
files as arguments, assembles them, and then runs the unit test, which is
effectively one or more executions of the simulator.

```
usage: bin/unittest [OPTIONS] FILE [FILE...]

  -h,--help              Print this message
  --print-output         Print program output
  --asm-print-level=N    Assembler output verbosity [0-9]
  --sim-print-level=N    Simulator output verbosity [0-9]
  --ignore-privilege     Ignore access violations
  --tester-verbose       Output tester messages
  --seed=N               Optional seed for randomization
  --test-filter=TEST     Only run TEST (can be repeated)
```

### Print Levels and Ignore Privilege
The assembly and simulator print levels are separate arguments and are forwarded
to the assembler and simulator modules, respectively.  The ignore privilege flag
is forwarded to the simulator module.

### Tester Verbose
Include messages in the report that are generated by the `output` function in a
unit test.

### Random Seed
A `uint64_t` that seeds the random number generator.  The seed that was used to
randomize the machine is printed in the report and can be supplied to this
argument to reproduce the unit test results exactly.

### Test Filter
Only run test cases whose name matches the filter exactly. For example, if a
unit test provides the test cases 'Simple Test', 'Advanced Test',
'Advanced Test (Randomized)', then supplying the argument
`--test-filter="Advanced Test"` will only run the 'Advanced Test'. Additionally,
to run the randomized version as well, another filter argument can be provided
as `--test-filter="Advanced Test (Randomized)"`.

## Static Library
The static library is not directly accessible through the command line but is
built alongside the command line tools. The name of the static library depends
on the platform it is compiled for, but will be similar to `liblc3tools.a`.
This static library is referred to as "the backend" for this project.

The command line tools, [unit tests](TEST.md), and [GUI](GUI.md) use the same
static library to perform all tasks, thus guaranteeing consistent behavior.
These components are all referred to as "frontends" for this project. Other
frontends can also be created by utilizing the API provided by the static
library. For more details on the API, see the [API document](API.md).


## Debugging
The command line tools offer significantly more debugging features than the GUI
frontend does. For more details on these features, see the [debugging
document](DEBUG.md).

# Copyright Notice
Copyright 2020 &copy; McGraw-Hill Education. All rights reserved. No
reproduction or distribution without the prior written consent of McGraw-Hill
Education.
